README.md, before:

# Slipbot

![note-taking-with-moltbot](slipbot.png)

**Agentic note-taking optimized for MoltBot.** Designed to make note capture frictionless for humans while your AI assistant handles organization, linking, and knowledge graph maintenance.

## What is Slipbot?

Slipbot is an agentic knowledge management system built for MoltBot and Clawdbot that eliminates the overhead of maintaining a personal knowledge graph. Instead of worrying about organization, tags, categories, or where things go, you just capture your thoughts naturally and let your AI agent handle everything else.

Your job: **Think and capture.**  
Agent's job: **Organize, link, and maintain.**

## How It Works

The workflow is simple:

1. Share a thought with your AI assistant naturally or explicitly:
   - "note: Research idea about spaced repetition"
   - "remember this: The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago"
   - "quote: Your limitation—it's only your imagination."
   
2. Your AI processes and organizes the note automatically

3. Your second brain grows without manual maintenance

That's it. No folders to organize, no tags to remember, no systems to maintain.

## Installation

### Requirements

- A MoltBot or Clawdbot installation
- Syncthing configured (for file sync between devices)

### Setup

1. Clone this repository into your sync folder
2. Your AI assistant will recognize note capture patterns automatically
3. Notes are stored in `sync/slipbox/` with automatic organization

### For MoltBot/Clawdbot Users

Your AI assistant will:
- Automatically recognize when you're capturing a note
- Create properly formatted markdown files
- Link related notes in your knowledge graph
- Maintain the graph index for fast queries
- Handle tagging based on content

No configuration needed. Just start capturing notes.

## Usage

### Basic Note Capture

```
note: Research idea: explore the relationship between retrieval practice and spaced repetition
```

### Capture Quotes

```
quote: The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The second best time is now.
```

Prefix with `>` for automatic quote detection:
```
> The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The second best time is now.
```

### Quick Thoughts

```
remember this: Need to investigate why the cache invalidation is slow on production
```

### Ideas

Prefix with `!` for automatic idea detection:
```
! What if we used event sourcing for the file processing pipeline?
```

### Journal Entries

Prefix with `*` for automatic journal entry detection:
```
* Today's stand-up went really well. The team is aligned on the Lambda migration.
```

### With Source Attribution

```
quote: "All models are wrong, but some are useful" - Source: George Box, Statistics
```

Your AI will check existing notes first, then use the provided source information.

## Querying Your Knowledge Graph

Ask your AI assistant naturally:
- "Show me notes about spaced repetition"
- "Find quotes from George Box"
- "What notes link to the Lambda migration idea?"
- "What have I written about performance optimization?"

## File Structure

```
sync/
├── slipbox/
│   ├── 20260131-041700-note-title.md
│   ├── 20260131-042000-another-note.md
│   └── .graph/
│       └── graph.json              # Knowledge graph index
```

## Note Format

Each note is a markdown file with YAML frontmatter:

```yaml
---
title: "Knowledge Graph Design Thoughts"
date: 2026-01-25T14:30:22-05:00
type: idea
tags: [systems, notes, automation]
source:
  title: "Thinking, Fast and Slow"
  type: "book"
  author: "Daniel Kahneman"
links:
  - id: "20260120-093045-compound-interest"
    type: related
    reason: "Both discuss emergent complexity"
---

Note contents here in markdown...
```

## Why Slipbot?

Traditional second brain systems fail because of maintenance overhead:

- Deciding where notes go
- Creating and maintaining taxonomies
- Linking related notes manually
- Keeping everything organized

Slipbot removes all of that. Your only job is to get thoughts out of your head. Your AI does the rest.

## How Linking Works

Your AI assistant automatically:
- Analyzes new note content against existing notes
- Identifies connection types:
  - **related**: Similar topic or theme
  - **extends**: Builds on or expands another note
  - **contradicts**: Opposing viewpoint or information
  - **references**: Mentions same person, book, concept
  - **supports**: Provides evidence for another note
- Updates frontmatter with bidirectional links (minimum 0.75 confidence)

## Tagging Philosophy

Slipbot uses object-based tagging:
- Tags are specific objects or concepts found in the note
- Not broad categories like "productivity" or "ideas"
- Object-based tags create precise connections
- Focus on nouns: specific people, tools, techniques, systems

**Example:**
- ❌ Broad: `[productivity, work, improvement]`
- ✅ Specific: `[pomodoro-technique, deep-work, Cal-Newport]`

## Status

Slipbot is actively maintained. It's functional and useful for daily note capture with AI assistants.

## Contributing

Issues and pull requests are welcome. This is an evolving project built for the AI assistant community.

## License

GPL-3.0 - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Update docs to match new prefix syntax
Updated README.md and docs/usage.md to use the new note capture
syntax defined in SKILL.md. Changed from keyword patterns (note:,
quote:, remember this:) to simple prefix patterns (-, >, !, *) with
the ~ delimiter for source attribution. Removed the examples/
directory and Natural Capture section as they are no longer needed.

README.md, after:

# Slipbot

![note-taking-with-moltbot](slipbot.png)

**Agentic note-taking optimized for MoltBot.** Designed to make note capture frictionless for humans while your AI assistant handles organization, linking, and knowledge graph maintenance.

## What is Slipbot?

Slipbot is an agentic knowledge management system built for MoltBot and Clawdbot that eliminates the overhead of maintaining a personal knowledge graph. Instead of worrying about organization, tags, categories, or where things go, you just capture your thoughts naturally and let your AI agent handle everything else.

Your job: **Think and capture.**  
Agent's job: **Organize, link, and maintain.**

## How It Works

The workflow is simple:

1. Share a thought with your AI assistant using simple prefixes:
   - `- Research idea about spaced repetition`
   - `> The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago ~ proverb, Chinese Proverb`
   - `! What if we built a knowledge graph that maintains itself?`
   
2. Your AI processes and organizes the note automatically

3. Your second brain grows without manual maintenance

That's it. No folders to organize, no tags to remember, no systems to maintain.

## Installation

### Requirements

- A MoltBot or Clawdbot installation
- Syncthing configured (for file sync between devices)

### Setup

1. Clone this repository into your sync folder
2. Your AI assistant will recognize note capture patterns automatically
3. Notes are stored in `sync/slipbox/` with automatic organization

### For MoltBot/Clawdbot Users

Your AI assistant will:
- Automatically recognize when you're capturing a note
- Create properly formatted markdown files
- Link related notes in your knowledge graph
- Maintain the graph index for fast queries
- Handle tagging based on content

No configuration needed. Just start capturing notes.

## Usage

### Basic Note Capture

```
- Research idea: explore the relationship between retrieval practice and spaced repetition
```

### Capture Quotes

```
> The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The second best time is now. ~ proverb, Chinese Proverb
```

### Ideas

Prefix with `!` for automatic idea detection:
```
! What if we used event sourcing for the file processing pipeline?
```

### Journal Entries

Prefix with `*` for automatic journal entry detection:
```
* Today's stand-up went really well. The team is aligned on the Lambda migration.
```

### With Source Attribution

Use `~` to add source information:

```
> All models are wrong, but some are useful. ~ article, Robustness in Statistics by George Box
```

Your AI will check existing notes first, then use the provided source information.

## Querying Your Knowledge Graph

Ask your AI assistant naturally:
- "Show me notes about spaced repetition"
- "Find quotes from George Box"
- "What notes link to the Lambda migration idea?"
- "What have I written about performance optimization?"

## File Structure

```
sync/
├── slipbox/
│   ├── 20260131-041700-note-title.md
│   ├── 20260131-042000-another-note.md
│   └── .graph/
│       └── graph.json              # Knowledge graph index
```

## Note Format

Each note is a markdown file with YAML frontmatter:

```yaml
---
title: "Knowledge Graph Design Thoughts"
date: 2026-01-25T14:30:22-05:00
type: idea
tags: [systems, notes, automation]
source:
  title: "Thinking, Fast and Slow"
  type: "book"
  author: "Daniel Kahneman"
links:
  - id: "20260120-093045-compound-interest"
    type: related
    reason: "Both discuss emergent complexity"
---

Note contents here in markdown...
```

## Why Slipbot?

Traditional second brain systems fail because of maintenance overhead:

- Deciding where notes go
- Creating and maintaining taxonomies
- Linking related notes manually
- Keeping everything organized

Slipbot removes all of that. Your only job is to get thoughts out of your head. Your AI does the rest.

## How Linking Works

Your AI assistant automatically:
- Analyzes new note content against existing notes
- Identifies connection types:
  - **related**: Similar topic or theme
  - **extends**: Builds on or expands another note
  - **contradicts**: Opposing viewpoint or information
  - **references**: Mentions same person, book, concept
  - **supports**: Provides evidence for another note
- Updates frontmatter with bidirectional links (minimum 0.75 confidence)

## Tagging Philosophy

Slipbot uses object-based tagging:
- Tags are specific objects or concepts found in the note
- Not broad categories like "productivity" or "ideas"
- Object-based tags create precise connections
- Focus on nouns: specific people, tools, techniques, systems

**Example:**
- ❌ Broad: `[productivity, work, improvement]`
- ✅ Specific: `[pomodoro-technique, deep-work, Cal-Newport]`

## Status

Slipbot is actively maintained. It's functional and useful for daily note capture with AI assistants.

## Contributing

Issues and pull requests are welcome. This is an evolving project built for the AI assistant community.

## License

GPL-3.0 - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
